<!--
title:
created:
updated:
slug:
tags:
-->
INSERT INTO `nc_posts` VALUES (23, 2, '2010-02-18 11:29:29', '2010-02-18 
19:29:29', 'My Dance of Shiva cards are out of stock at the moment. I should 
have a new batch ready to go by March. If you <a href="/contact/" title="Get in 
touch with me.">send me a note</a>, I''ll email you when they''re up for sale 
again.\r\n\r\nThis is a deck of sixty-four cards that show a smiling Shiva Nata 
guy doing every arm position in <a href="/dance-of-shiva/" title="What is Dance 
of Shiva?">Dance of Shiva</a>. They have numbers in the corner so you can match 
the arm positions with the numbers on Andrey''s <abbr title="Digital Video 
Disk">DVD</abbr>. And the numbers are color coded so you can do Dance of Shiva 
with colors instead of numbers if you want to make it harder. They come in 
their own box, and all the illustrations where done by <a 
href="http://notdeadyetstudios.com/" title="Not Dead Yet Studios">Amy 
Crook</a>.\r\n\r\n<p class="preview"><img src="/images/SNCardsFront.png" 
width="275" height="380" alt="The front of one of the Dance of Shiva 
cards."/><img src="/images/SNCardsBack.png" with="275" height="380" alt="The 
back of one of the Dance of Shiva cards."/></p>\r\n\r\nThe pictures above show 
the front and back of one of the cards. Because the cards are plastic coated, 
the colors are significantly richer in real life. They''re a hair thicker than 
regular playing cards, and the high gloss finish makes them a delight to 
shuffle and deal.\r\n\r\n<h3>How much do they cost?</h3>\r\n\r\nA deck of Dance 
of Shiva cards is <strong><abbr title="Twenty-five U.S. 
dollars">$25</abbr></strong>. That includes free shipping anywhere in the 
world. You can pay by credit card or with <a href="http://paypal.com/" 
title="PayPal is a quick and easy way to send money 
online.">PayPal</a>.\r\n\r\n<h3>What do I do with them?</h3>\r\n\r\nIf you''re 
learning Dance of Shiva, they''re a wonderful way to increase the complexity of 
your practice. Shuffle a deck and deal out eight cards to come up with a random 
set of starting positions. You can also use them to play <a 
href="/transquarters-memory-game/" title="Read the rules for Transquarters 
Memory.">Transquarters Memory</a> or <a href="/spirals-solitaire-game/" 
title="Read the rules for Spirals Solitaire.">Spirals Solitaire</a>, two games 
which increase the speed at which you learn Dance of Shiva.\r\n\r\n<h3>What if 
I don''t like them?</h3>\r\n\r\nIf you''re not 100% satisfied with your Dance 
of Shiva cards, I''ll give you your money back. Every penny of it. Just <a 
href="/contact/" title="Need to contact me?">get in touch with me</a> and let 
me know. Plus, you get to keep the cards.\r\n\r\n<h3>When will I get 
them?</h3>\r\n\r\nMy Dance of Shiva cards are out of stock at the moment. I 
should have a new batch ready to go by March. If you <a href="/contact/" 
title="Get in touch with me.">send me a note</a>, I''ll email you when they''re 
up for sale again.\r\n\r\nBecause the Dance of Shiva cards are custom printed, 
they can take longer to get to you. If I''ve got copies in stock (and I usually 
do) it''ll take 2 to 3 weeks. If I have to get a new batch printed up, it''ll 
take 4 to 6 weeks. Either way, I''ll contact you and let you know when you can 
expect them to arrive.\r\n\r\n<strong>P.S.</strong> Worried that this will be 
one of those things that collects dust in your closet on top of the Monopoly 
box? Yeah, I have decks of cards that do that too. So you have my permission to 
not buy any Dance of Shiva cards and not feel guilty about it. Instead, you can 
come hang out on <a href="http://nichecards.com/" title="Pasteboard products 
with personalities | Niche Cards">the blog</a> if you want.', 'Dance of Shiva 
Cards', '', 'publish', 'closed', 'closed', '', 'buy-dance-of-shiva-cards', '', 
'', '2010-12-22 16:48:26', '2010-12-23 00:48:26', '', 0, 
'http://nichecards.com/?page_id=23', 0, 'page', '', 0);
