INSERT INTO `nc_posts` VALUES (221, 2, '2010-03-01 10:20:07', '2010-03-01 
18:20:07', 'For a long time, researchers thought the maximum number of objects 
a person could visually track was 4. But <a 
href="http://journalofvision.org/7/13/14/article.aspx" title="Article from the 
Journal of Vision about tracking objects.">new research</a> by George Alvarez 
and Steven Franconeri seems to indicate that the number of tracking mechanisms 
available is more of a fluid resource than a fixed one. The slower objects are 
moving, the easier it is to track more of them, up to 8 or more in some cases. 
The faster objects are moving, the harder they are to track, so the number that 
can be followed rapidly approaches 1. The resources the brain can use to keep 
track of things are flexible, but they''re a limited shared resource. When 
they''re all used up, the brain stops being able to track things.\r\n\r\nIf you 
hang out in the <abbr title="Research and Development">R&D</abbr> section of a 
engineering company for long, you''ll notice the engineers keep notebooks. In 
addition to providing a historical record for what you''ve been working on, 
writing stuff down makes room in your brain for new ideas to surface. As Dean 
Allen puts it in <a 
href="http://amazon.com/Getting-Things-Done-Stress-Free-Productivity/dp/01420002
80/" title="Buy &#8220;Getting Things Done&#8221; on Amazon.">Getting Things 
Done</a>, "Anything that does not belong where it is, the way it is, is an 
''open loop'' pulling on your attention." That includes the thoughts and ideas 
that are currently wondering around in your brain.\r\n\r\nPutting pen to paper 
on a regular basis also gives you the ability to look back at the ideas you 
previously thought about. This can give you insights into your likes and 
dislikes, relationships, problems your trying to solve, what the next step for 
your business is, or whatever else it is you happen to write about. Of course, 
if you''re not in the habit of core dumping your brain, it can be hard to 
start. Here''s a few tips to get you started.\r\n\r\n<h4>Find a notebook and 
pen you like.</h4>\r\n\r\nI pretty much hated every journal I ever wrote in, 
simply because the ink always bled through the paper. I''ve been in love with 
<a href="http://pilotpen.us/products/rollingball/#anchor_preciseV" 
title="Smooth, fluid, pens available in a variety of colors.">Pilot Precise V5 
pens</a> since the 5th grade, and refuse to write with anything else. Finding a 
paper that could handle their crazy rapid ink output was hard. Then I found <a 
href="http://eccololtd.com/" title="Italian made journals that are a delight to 
write in.">Eccolo journals</a>. Thick, creamy, writing bliss, and the ink never 
smudges. Good tools don''t necessarily make you a better craftsman, but they 
definitely make the process more enjoyable.\r\n\r\n<h4>Write about the same 
mundane thing every day.</h4>\r\n\r\nIf you''re new to the habit of writing, 
pick an aspect of your life for observation and simply jot a sentence or two 
about it every day. Maybe it''s what you ate for breakfast, or how long the 
walk to work took, or what outfit you wore. The point is to simply get in the 
habit of regularly examining your life. Make sure you date your observations. 
After a few weeks you''ll be able to go back and see patterns in your behavior. 
Maybe you always eat waffles for breakfast on Sunday, or you always wear 
sweaters on the weekends. Subconscious programming dictates even the most 
benign of our activities. Once you see a pattern, you can start asking yourself 
why it might be there.\r\n\r\n<h4>Keep it secret. Keep it safe.</h4>\r\n\r\nA 
friend and I learned <a href="http://gregg.angelfishy.net/" title="Andrew 
Owen&#8217;s wonderful resource for learning Gregg Shorthand.">Gregg 
Shorthand</a> in grade school, ostensibly for passing notes without getting 
caught. That fear of having someone else read what you''ve written, and 
subsequently judge you for it, can be a huge deterrent to writing stuff down. 
One of the best solutions is to learn shorthand. In addition to letting you 
write a lot faster, it''ll pretty much ensure you''ll be the only one who can 
read your writings.', 'Core dumping your brain makes you smarter', 'Wherein an 
argument for the limited shared resources of the brain is presented, and 
writing is proposed as a solution to purge old ideas and allow new ones to 
form.', 'publish', 'open', 'open', '', 'core-dump-your-brain', '', '', 
'2010-03-03 09:45:04', '2010-03-03 17:45:04', '', 0, 
'http://nichecards.com/?p=221', 0, 'post', '', 0);
