<!--
title:
created:
updated:
slug:
tags:
-->
INSERT INTO `nc_posts` VALUES (47, 2, '2010-02-22 12:45:46', '2010-02-22 
20:45:46', 'It''s come and gone, and we had a blast. Check out the <a 
href="/live/" title="Classes, workshops, and other live events I 
teach.">classes page</a> if you want to see when the next one 
is.\r\n\r\n<h3>What is it?</h3>\r\n\r\nA half-day workshop about how you can 
use your brain and body to get insights and ideas any time you need them. Half 
of it''s theory and pop neuroscience. The other half involves uncoordinated arm 
flailing to inappropriate music. It''s happening on Saturday, April 10th, 2010, 
at the <em>Oneness Playground</em> in Boise, Idaho.\r\n\r\n<h3>What''s going to 
happen?</h3>\r\n\r\n<strong>9:00 am - 10:30 am.</strong> We''ll talk about 
where ideas and insights come from (the neuroscience behind them). We''ll look 
at why common suggestions for getting out of a rut (take a walk, play a game, 
do something else) don''t always work. Then we''ll discuss tools for generating 
ideas and insights any time you need them.\r\n\r\n<strong>10:30 am - 12:00 
pm.</strong> We''ll do <a href="/dance-of-shiva/" title="What&#8217;s Dance of 
Shiva?">Dance of Shiva</a> so all the stuff we talked about gets integrated 
into your body and your brain. That way you won''t lose it. Plus, there will be 
Hug Yourself Yoga.\r\n\r\n<h3>Can I come?</h3>\r\n\r\nAt the moment I''ve got 
space for <strong>18 people</strong>. The cost is <abbr title="Sixty-seven U.S. 
dollars"><strong>$67</strong></abbr> per person, and you get to arrange your 
own transportation, lodging, and food. If you''re cool with that, go ahead and 
sign up.\r\n\r\n<h3>What do I need?</h3>\r\n\r\n"What do I need?" is one of my 
favorite questions. I think we should replace the I-just-met-you-question of 
"What do you do?" with "What do you need?". But I''m assuming you''re asking, 
what do I need to bring to this creative sparkles thing?\r\n\r\n<h4>Wear 
comfortable clothes.</h4>\r\n\r\nThere will be Dance of Shiva and Hug Yourself 
Yoga. Wear something you can move in. I''m a bit of a clothes pony, so I''ll 
probably wear <a href="http://prana.com/" title="Sustainable clothing for yoga, 
rock climbing, and adventures.">prAna pants</a> and an <a 
href="http://izod.com/" title="Comfortable and good looking sweaters you can 
get at Macy''s.">IZOD sweater</a>.\r\n\r\n<h4>Bring your favorite notebook and 
writing instrument.</h4>\r\n\r\nThere will be plenty of stuff you''ll want to 
take notes on. And you''ll have at least one creative sparkle moment where 
you''ll want to scribble madly for five minutes about the awesome insight you 
just had. I love <a href="http://eccololtd.com/" title="Italian made journals 
that are a delight to write in.">Eccolo journals</a> and <a 
href="http://pilotpen.us/products/rollingball/#anchor_preciseV" title="Found 
them in the 5th grade. Haven''t used another pen since.">Pilot Precise V5 
pens</a> for that sort of thing.\r\n\r\n<h3>Dancing? Yoga? But I''m not 
flexible!</h3>\r\n\r\nThat''s okay. You don''t have to be flexible or have 
great balance of whatever. Heck, I still have trouble standing on one leg. Can 
you count to eight? Can you wave your arms? Can you breath? Can you lay on the 
floor (or sit in a chair)? If you can do all those things, you can do Dance of 
Shiva and Hug Yourself Yoga.\r\n\r\n<h3>What if I can''t make 
it?</h3>\r\n\r\nStuff happens. I understand. You can cancel at any time and 
I''ll give you all your money back.\r\n\r\n<h3>Okay, I''m 
in.</h3>\r\n\r\nGreat. When you click the registration button below, it''ll 
take you to a page where you can pay with a credit card or <a 
href="http://paypal.com/" title="PayPal is the easiest way to send money 
online.">PayPal</a>. Then you''ll get a confirmation email with reminders about 
the date and time, how to get to the <em>Oneness Playground</em>, and stuff 
like that. If you don''t want to pay online, <a href="/contact/" title="Need to 
talk? Drop me a line.">get in touch with me</a> and we can make other 
arrangements.\r\n\r\n<strong>P.S.</strong> Workshops, classes, and in person 
instruction and insights not your thing? That''s cool. You can come hang out on 
<a href="/" title="Pasteboard products with personalities | Niche Cards">the 
blog</a> if you want.', 'Creative Sparkles 101', '', 'publish', 'closed', 
'closed', '', 'creative-sparkles-101-class', '', '', '2010-06-25 18:12:19', 
'2010-06-26 02:12:19', '', 0, 'http://nichecards.com/?page_id=47', 0, 'page', 
'', 0);
