INSERT INTO `nc_posts` VALUES (139, 2, '2010-02-25 12:06:21', '2010-02-25 
20:06:21', 'Have you ever had a moment where things just clicked? Where the 
pieces to a problem you were working on just fell into place and you said, "Ah, 
that''s the answer. That''s how it''s all supposed to work." Those insights 
happen when the neurons in your brain form new connections, bringing 
subconscious knowing into conscious awareness.\r\n\r\nFor most people, creative 
sparkles like that are rare. But that''s simply because they haven''t taught 
their brain how to have moments like that on a regular basis. Dance of Shiva is 
a system of yoga that actually teaches you how to have subconscious insights in 
a conscious fashion. It does this by creating an environment of ever increasing 
complexity and multi-sensory stimuli that your brain can play and grow 
in.\r\n\r\n<a href="http://universal-yoga.com/" title="Andrey Lappa''s site 
about Universal Yoga.">Andrey Lappa</a>, the Ukrainian yogi who created Dance 
of Shiva, calls it "a system for conscious liberation". Visually, it''s a set 
of complex flowing arm and leg motions that look something like dancing. <a 
href="http://fluentself.com/" title="The Fluent Self is Havi Brooks'' site 
about destuckification.">Havi Brooks</a> has a <a 
href="http://youtube.com/watch?v=1Ctuyg7rLX0" title="Havi Brooks'' Dance of 
Shiva demonstration on YouTube.">demonstration video</a> if you want to see 
what it looks like.\r\n\r\n<h3>What''s this about subconscious 
insights?</h3>\r\n\r\nOur brains are amazing at pattern recognition. Think 
about how you tune in when someone says your name in a crowded airport. But a 
lot of the pattern recognition and response that goes on in them is 
subconscious. We learn something, our brain puts together a pattern for it, and 
then we don''t have to consciously think about it any more. Convenient for 
learning, but inconvenient when you want a new idea or insight about the 
problems you''re working on.\r\n\r\nDance of Shiva is built on patterns of 
increasing complexity. First you learn the arm motions, then the leg motions, 
then the breathing. Then you learn different arm motions, and leg motions, and 
breathing. Each level adds a new challenge and depth of complexity. The result 
is a rich and stimulating environment where your brain is constantly 
experiencing neurogenesis, the creation of new connections between 
neurons.\r\n\r\nWhen your brain creates new neurological connections, you have 
those wonderful moments of, "Ah, that''s how it works." You get new ideas and 
insights about whatever you''re currently working on, simply because your brain 
is forming new connections. Consistent practice trains your brain to have more 
and more of those moments, which makes life a whole lot easier because things 
just start to click together and make sense.\r\n\r\n<h3>How did you get into 
this?</h3>\r\n\r\nI bought the <a 
href="http://shivanata.com/learn-dance-of-shiva/" title="Learn Dance of Shiva 
with Havi Brooks'' starter kit.">Dance of Shiva Starter Kit</a> because a 
little voice inside me said, "You need to learn this." Eight months later I 
spent a week in California studying with Havi, who''s the #2 expert in the 
world on Dance of Shiva.\r\n\r\nWhen I started, I couldn''t balance on one leg. 
Seriously. I had no idea how people did stuff like <em>virkshahsanna</em>, <a 
href="http://yogajournal.com/poses/496" title="An explanation of Tree Pose from 
Yoga Journal.">tree pose</a>, since whenever I tried I just fell over. Three 
months after practicing Dance of Shiva I could stand on one foot and wave the 
other one around in little circles. And my balance keeps improving with every 
practice.\r\n\r\nPlus, I used to hunch. My upper body kind of cringed in on 
itself. I had a hard time looking people in the eye because my head would 
follow the curve of my spine down to stare at their feet. Six days after I 
started doing Dance of Shiva, I had an amazing insight about the nature of my 
hunching. I got up from <em>shavasana</em>, and stood up straight for the first 
time in my life <em>without it feeling wrong</em>. Since then my posture has 
just gotten better and better.\r\n\r\nPosture and balance are the two major 
physical things Dance of Shiva has improved for me. But it also improves 
reflexes, coordination, and the cognitive muscle that lets you task switch 
quickly. And it teaches you to see the subconscious patterns that play out in 
every day life.\r\n\r\n<h3>Where can I learn it?</h3>\r\n\r\nIf you want to 
learn Dance of Shiva, <a href="/live/" title="Classes and other live events 
where I teach Dance of Shiva.">I teach classes</a> about it. If you''re more of 
a home study type, <a href="http://shivanata.com/learn-dance-of-shiva/" 
title="Learn Dance of Shiva with Havi Brooks'' starter kit.">Havi''s Starter 
Kit</a> is wonderful. It includes Andrey''s <abbr title="Digital Video 
Disk">DVD</abbr> and tons of supplementary notes and 
instructions.\r\n\r\n<strong>P.S.</strong> Occasionally I''ll refer to Dance of 
Shiva as Shiva Nata, <em>nata</em> being a Sanskrit word for "dance".', 
'What''s Dance of Shiva?', '', 'publish', 'open', 'open', '', 'dance-of-shiva', 
'', '', '2010-03-17 09:08:56', '2010-03-17 17:08:56', '', 0, 
'http://nichecards.com/?page_id=139', 0, 'page', '', 0);
