INSERT INTO `nc_posts` VALUES (321, 2, '2010-03-15 16:10:41', '2010-03-16 
00:10:41', 'Way back in October of last year, I had an idea for a set of 
playing cards based on <a href="/dance-of-shiva/" title="What&#8217;s Dance of 
Shiva?">Dance of Shiva</a>. So I started sketching little shivanauts in <a 
href="http://inkscape.org/" title="Inkscape is an Open Source vector graphics 
drawing program.">Inkscape</a>.\r\n\r\n<p class="preview"><img 
src="/images/SNGuy11.png" width="142" height="133" alt="A sketch of a guy doing 
the first horizontal position in Dance of Shiva."/></p>\r\n\r\nIt became 
apparent after I got through two or three, that I lacked the artistic skills 
necessary to bring my vision to life. So I posted to one of <a 
href="http://fluentself.com/" title="The Fluent Self - For when you need some 
destuckification.">Havi''s</a> Very Personal Ads, asking for a graphic artist 
who "got" Dance of Shiva. And <a href="http://notdeadyetstudios.com/" 
title="Not Dead Yet Studios">Amy Crook</a> posted on the same day saying that 
she was a graphic artist who needed a client.\r\n\r\nFour months later, this is 
the result.\r\n\r\n<p class="preview"><img src="/images/SNCardsBox.png" 
width="242" height="347" alt="A box of Dance of Shiva 
cards."/></p>\r\n\r\nThat''s a box of sixty-four Dance of Shiva cards straight 
from the printer. Each card shows one of the possible arm positions in Dance of 
Shiva.\r\n\r\nIf you''ve played around with my <a 
href="/2010/03/digital-dance-of-shiva/" title="A Dance of Shiva Dashboard 
widget for your Mac.">Dance of Shiva widget</a> you''re already seen Amy''s 
artwork of the shivanaut. If you haven''t, here''s an example of the front and 
back from the 84 card.\r\n\r\n<p class="preview"><img 
src="/images/SNCardsFront.png" width="275" height="380" alt="The front of the 
84 Dance of Shiva card."/><img src="/images/SNCardsBack.png" width="275" 
height="380" alt="The back of the 84 Dance of Shiva card."/></p>\r\n\r\nThus 
far, I''ve played <a href="/transquarters-memory-game/" title="Read the rules 
for Transquarters Memory.">Transquarters Memory</a> and <a 
href="/spirals-solitaire-game/" title="Read the rules for Spirals 
Solitaire.">Spirals Solitaire</a> with them, as well as a rummy variant. 
Solitaire is a nice challenge, because the cards don''t stack in numeric order, 
they stack according to the patterns of Dance of Shiva. Which makes my brain 
delightfully confused and results in lots of giggling.\r\n\r\nIf you want your 
own set, I have some for <a href="/buy-dance-of-shiva-cards/" title="Get your 
own box of Dance of Shiva cards.">sale</a>.', 'Dance of Shiva cards', 'Wherein 
my Dance of Shiva cards make their debut, Amy''s artwork is gratuitously 
displayed, and the rules for a few esoteric card games come to light. Sales 
links are featured less than prominently.', 'publish', 'open', 'open', '', 
'dance-of-shiva-cards', '', '', '2010-03-21 09:44:30', '2010-03-21 17:44:30', 
'', 0, 'http://nichecards.com/?p=321', 0, 'post', '', 1);
