INSERT INTO `nc_posts` VALUES (268, 2, '2010-03-08 13:23:58', '2010-03-08 
21:23:58', 'Back in January, I was hanging out with <a 
href="http://copylicious.com/" title="Kelly Parkinson a.ka. Copylicious Kelly, 
is an amazing copy editor and seriously cool person.">Kelly</a> at Havi''s 
Destuckification Retreat, and she mentioned that it would be cool to have a 
digital <a href="/dance-of-shiva/" title="My somewhat lucid explanation for 
what Dance of Shiva is.">Dance of Shiva</a> that popped up on your computer and 
reminded you to take dance breaks. One month later, I haven''t got the reminder 
part working, but I did create digital dancing with Lord Shiva.\r\n\r\n<img 
src="/images/SNWidgetFront.png" width="275" height="380" alt="The front of the 
Dance of Shiva widget, which looks like a playing card and shows the shivanaut 
and the numbered arm positions."/><img src="/images/SNWidgetBack.png" 
width="275" height="380" alt="The back of the Dance of Shiva widget, which 
looks like a playing card and lets you set the preferences."/>\r\n\r\nYou can 
practice horizontals, verticals, transquarters, or spirals, all Level 1. The 
speed is adjustable based on how long you want to dance, and you have the 
option to hear the numbers too. <a href="http://notdeadyetstudios.com/" 
title="Amy Crook does absolutely fantastic artwork.">Amy Crook</a> did the 
shivanaut illustrations, and I did the card backgrounds with <a 
href="http://flyingmeat.com/acorn/" title="Acorn is Mac OS X image editor for 
humans.">Acorn</a>. \r\n\r\n<p class="buy"><a href="/software/SNWidget.zip" 
title="Download the Dance of Shiva Dashboard widget.">Download the digital 
Dance of Shiva</a></p>\r\n\r\n<h4>Installation</h4>\r\n\r\nIt''s a widget for 
Apple''s Dashboard, and Mac <abbr title="Operating System">OS</abbr> X version 
10.4 (Tiger) or later is required to run it. Download the widget by clicking 
the button above, then unzip it, and double click the icon to 
install.\r\n\r\n<h4>Usage</h4>\r\n\r\nClicking the shivanaut graphic on the 
front of the widget will start the dancing. Clicking again will pause it. 
There''s an "i" button in the lower right corner that flips the widget 
over.\r\n\r\nYou can choose from four different types of arm movement: 
horizontals, verticals, transquarters, and spirals. You can also set how long 
you want to dance for, and turn on spoken numbers. But if you set him up to 
dance really fast, the speech processing can''t keep up and you won''t hear any 
numbers.', 'Digital dancing with Lord Shiva', 'Wherein a digital Dance of Shiva 
widget for Apple''s Dashboard is debuted. Features include four different dance 
styles, speed control, and optional spoken numbers.', 'publish', 'open', 
'open', '', 'digital-dance-of-shiva', '', '', '2010-03-14 11:47:44', 
'2010-03-14 19:47:44', '', 0, 'http://nichecards.com/?p=268', 0, 'post', '', 6);
