INSERT INTO `nc_posts` VALUES (174, 2, '2010-02-26 09:14:16', '2010-02-26 
17:14:16', 'This weekend is <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Purim" 
title="Wikipedia''s entry about the Jewish holiday of Purim.">Purim</a>, so I 
made <em>hamentaschen</em>. I''m not Jewish, but I do celebrate <a 
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Passover_Seder" title="Wikipedia''s entry 
about the Jewish holiday of Passover Seder.">Seder</a>, and think 
<em>hamentaschen</em> have replaced <em>springerles</em> as my new favorite 
cookie. Mostly because you don''t have to wait a month before eating them. This 
is a reprint of <a 
href="http://fluentself.com/blog/stuff/happy-purim-also-cookies/" title="Havi 
Brook''s recipe for hamentaschen.">Havi''s recipe</a>, with notes about things 
I''d do differently next 
time.\r\n\r\n<h4>Ingredients</h4>\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>0.5 cups of butter 
(softened)</li>\r\n<li>1 cup brown sugar</li>\r\n<li>1 egg</li>\r\n<li>2 
teaspoons orange juice (pulp free)</li>\r\n<li>1 teaspoon vanilla 
extract</li>\r\n<li>2 cups white flower</li>\r\n<li>2 teaspoons baking powder 
(not baking soda)</li>\r\n<li>2 cups dehydrated figs</li>\r\n<li>1 cup 
raisins</li>\r\n<li>3 cups of 
water</li>\r\n<li>cinnamon</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\n<h4>Directions</h4>\r\n\r\nCream
 the butter and sugar, then add the egg, orange juice, and vanilla. Combine the 
baking powder and flour in a separate bowl. Mix the dry ingredients into the 
wet ingredients. Split the dough into a couple of balls, and stick it in the 
refrigerator for a few hours.\r\n\r\nPut the figs and raisins into a pot. Add 
the water. It should just cover them. Bring the whole thing to a boil, then 
turn it down to low and let it simmer for two hours. Add cinnamon to taste and 
let it simmer a bit longer until it gets all gloppy. Remove it from the heat 
and let it cool.\r\n\r\nSpread out a sheet of wax paper, sprinkle flour on it, 
and roll the dough out. You want it about 0.125 inches thin. Cut the dough into 
circles with a coffee cup. Place a tablespoon of fig filling in the center of 
each circle. Fold the edges of the dough over the filling so the cookie makes a 
triangle. Tuck the corners under each other like an Escher 
staircase.\r\n\r\nPreheat the oven to <abbr title="350 degrees 
Fahrenheit">350&deg;F</abbr>. Butter a cookie sheet and put the 
<em>hamentaschen</em> on it. You can get them pretty close, since they don''t 
spread out much. Bake them for 10 minutes, or until the edges and bottoms are 
browned.\r\n\r\n<h4>Notes</h4>\r\n\r\nThis recipe makes about 32 cookies. If 
you don''t use pulp free orange juice you''ll wonder why you ended up with bits 
of dental floss in your dough. If you accidentally use wheat flour instead of 
white, you''ll need to add 2 tablespoons of gluten and 3 tablespoons of hot 
water to your dough in order to make it elastic enough to roll without 
crumbling apart.', 'Making hamentaschen cookies', 'In which a recipe for the 
Jewish cookie of <em>hamentaschen</em> is provided and the resemblance of pulp 
filled orange juice to dental floss when used as a baking ingredient is 
explored.', 'publish', 'open', 'open', '', 'hamentaschen-cookies-recipe', '', 
'\nhttp://fluentself.com/blog/stuff/happy-purim-also-cookies/', '2010-02-26 
09:17:50', '2010-02-26 17:17:50', '', 0, 'http://nichecards.com/?p=174', 0, 
'post', '', 0);
