INSERT INTO `nc_posts` VALUES (79, 2, '2010-02-22 15:44:25', '2010-02-22 
23:44:25', 'About six months ago, I got really interested in learning where 
Dance of Shiva came from. So I read <a 
href="http://universal-yoga.com/?id=64707" title="Andrey Lappa''s writings on 
Dance of Shiva.">Andrey''s notes about it</a> and all of <a 
href="http://shivanata.com/" title="Havi Brook''s Shiva Nata blog.">Havi''s 
stuff</a> as well.\r\n\r\nAndrey mentions that the spiral arm movements where 
part of early Buddhist practices, originally done with bowls of lit oil in each 
hand. Later they were brought to the Shaolin by Boddhidharma, where they became 
the basis for martial arts. Which means that Shiva Nata''s been around for a 
long time, and elements of it have probably found their way into other 
practices as well.\r\n\r\nIn the book <a 
href="http://amazon.com/Zelator-Initiate-Explores-Ancient-Mysteries/dp/157863169
6" title="Buy &#8220;The Zelator&#8221; from Amazon.">The Zelator</a> by Mark 
Hedsel, there''s a brief mention of a Nepali dance that sounds a bit like Dance 
of Shiva.\r\n\r\n<blockquote><p>In the basement of the house, the whole group 
was involved in the most intense vibrations of a temple dance imported to 
Europe from Tibet, China and Nepal. We had first seen these steps practiced by 
a serious, shaven-headed boy of six or seven, near Kathmandu, in Nepal. The 
interpreter had called it the <em>Thatrug</em>, which he told us, meant ''Dance 
of the Directions''. At the time, the dance had seamed easy, yet this was only 
because we had not learned its dark secret. We did not know that with each 
mastery of one direction, a new element was introduced, so that the dance 
became a terrible odyssey of learning, a frightful endless exercise in the 
unremitting concentration of attention.</p></blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe concept of 
a temple dance from China that introduces new elements of complexity as it''s 
learned fits Andrey Lappa''s Dance of Shiva. However, Hedsel goes on to 
describe the <em>Thatrug</em> as a dance where motions of the feet, head, 
hands, and spine that are related to piano music and accompanied by the 
recitation of Sanskrit mantras. That doesn''t sound like Dance of Shiva at 
all.\r\n\r\nYet Andrey''s writings mention <a 
href="http://universal-yoga.com/?id=65007" title="Andrey''s notes about spinal 
motions and breath patterns in Dance of Shiva.">spinal motions</a> and <a 
href="http://universal-yoga.com/?id=65207" title="Andrey''s notes about 
advanced Dance of Shiva practice.">spiral movements of the fingers</a> that 
accompany the advanced levels of a Shiva Nata practice. And Havi teaches Shiva 
Nata to music, occasionally replacing the numeric positions for the arms with 
words, and thus adding mantras to the dance.', 'Where does Dance of Shiva come 
from?', 'Wherein the origins of Dance of Shiva are speculated on and loose 
connections are drawn to a Nepali dance.', 'publish', 'open', 'open', '', 
'origins-of-dance-of-shiva', '', '', '2010-02-22 15:47:44', '2010-02-22 
23:47:44', '', 0, 'http://nichecards.com/?p=79', 0, 'post', '', 0);
