<!--
title:
created:
updated:
slug:
tags:
-->
INSERT INTO `nc_posts` VALUES (262, 2, '2010-03-05 08:23:05', '2010-03-05 
16:23:05', '"Taste this."\r\n\r\n"What is it?"\r\n\r\n"A pecan."\r\n\r\n"It''s 
delicious! What did you do to it?"\r\n\r\n"Cooked it for about three minutes in 
hot oil."\r\n\r\n"You mean you fried it?"\r\n\r\nThe best part of making pecan 
beef is definitely the fried pecans. They''re crunchy, oily, an oh so 
delicious.\r\n\r\n<h4>Ingredients</h4>\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>1 pound top round 
steak</li>\r\n<li>2 tablespoons soy sauce</li>\r\n<li>0.5 cups boiling 
water</li>\r\n<li>1 tablespoon corn starch</li>\r\n<li>2 tablespoons vegetable 
oil</li>\r\n<li>0.5 cups chopped raw pecans</li>\r\n<li>0.5 cups chopped 
onion</li>\r\n<li>2 cloves minced garlic</li>\r\n<li>4 cups chopped bok 
choy</li>\r\n<li>0.5 cups sliced bamboo 
shoots</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\n<h4>Directions</h4>\r\n\r\nSlice the steak into 
thin strips. Blend the soy sauce and water then set aside. <a 
href="/2010/02/tacos-recipe/#notes" title="Secrets of the cast iron cooking 
masters revealed.">Preheat a cast iron skillet</a> then add the vegetable oil. 
Stir-fry the pecans for 3 minutes. Remove the pecans. Add the onion and garlic 
and stir-fry 1 minute. Add the bok choy and stir-fry 1 minute more. Remove the 
vegetables. Stir-fry the steak until it''s cooked all the way through. Don''t 
cook it too long or it''ll get tough. Stir the soy sauce mixture into the beef. 
Cook until it thickens and bubbles. Mix the bamboo shoots in with the 
vegetables. Add the vegetables to the beef, then cover and cook for 1 more 
minute.\r\n\r\n<h4>Notes</h4>\r\n\r\nThis is lovely served over a bed of rice. 
If you want less of a mustard flavor, you can substitute spinach for the bok 
choy and been sprouts for the bamboo. It makes about 4 servings.', 'Making 
pecan beef', 'In which a recipe for the somewhat oriental flavored dish of 
Pecan Beef is presented and the delicious virtues of stir-fried pecans are 
extolled.', 'publish', 'open', 'open', '', 'pecan-beef-recipe', '', '', 
'2010-03-09 12:49:40', '2010-03-09 20:49:40', '', 0, 
'http://nichecards.com/?p=262', 0, 'post', '', 0);
