<!--
title:
created:
updated:
slug:
tags:
-->
INSERT INTO `nc_posts` VALUES (405, 2, '2010-07-12 13:27:36', '2010-07-12 
21:27:36', 'I tend to follow my hunches. Reading a job post by <a 
href="http://dougboutwell.com/" title="Doug Boutwell&#8217;s blog is filled 
with photography and fun.">Doug Boutwell</a> sparked a little voice inside me 
to say, "Write this guy." So I dashed off an email and this morning we talked 
on the phone.\r\n\r\nTurns out, Doug''s looking for software engineers to help 
take his collection of <a href="http://gettotallyrad.com/" title="Photoshop 
actions for rockin&#8217; digital photography.">totally rad Photoshop 
actions</a> to the next level. Doug asked me what kinds of programming I liked 
to do, and I mentioned that I like implementing algorithms.\r\n\r\nNow I''d 
just got done with thirty minutes of <a href="/dance-of-shiva/" title="What is 
Dance of Shiva?">wacky brain training yoga</a> before my call with Doug. So 
when I got off the phone, bits and pieces started to 
click.\r\n\r\n<h3>Childhood memories</h3>\r\n\r\nIf you really want to figure 
out what you should do in life, go back and look at what you did as a kid. Dig 
through your memories. What you''re looking for is the thing that sustained 
you. You''re eight years old, and it''s a sunny summer afternoon. What are you 
doing?\r\n\r\nI''m building something out of <a href="http://lego.com/" 
title="The official website of LEGO.">LEGOs</a>.\r\n\r\nThose little colored 
bricks where a window to another world. I had pirates that raided coastal 
forts, space lanes filled with intergalactic shipping freighters, and garbage 
trucks that plucked bean bags off my floor. But it wasn''t the stories that I 
was drawn to. In fact, as soon as I found a story for one of my creations, I''d 
pull it apart and build something new.\r\n\r\nWhat I loved was putting the 
pieces together.\r\n\r\nDelight was found in collecting disparate parts into a 
working model, and watching something from my imagination become real. Even 
today, that''s the kind of work that sustains me.\r\n\r\n<h3>Creating 
software</h3>\r\n\r\nBefore you can go off and create something, you have to 
know what all the pieces are. The first thing you do with a LEGO kit is open up 
all the little baggies and follow the included instructions to create a model. 
The software equivalent is implementing algorithms from technical papers. It''s 
something I do for fun, because that''s how I learn how the different parts fit 
together.\r\n\r\nThe real joy in a LEGO kit comes after you''ve but the 
included model. Because then you know what all the pieces are and how they work 
together. Then you can let your imagination run wild and create something new. 
In the software world, that manifests as the creation of something like <a 
href="http://nichecards.com/2010/03/digital-dance-of-shiva/" title="Digital 
dancing with Lord Shiva">digital Dance of Shiva</a>. Math and graphics and 
design all blend together to form something the world''s never seen 
before.\r\n\r\nAs a software engineer, I love orchestrating the creation of 
digital things. The best part is when I get to be part of a team, working with 
other people to transform the basic building blocks of sounds and graphics and 
algorithms into something new.', 'Putting pieces together', 'Wherein I 
correlate LEGOs and Dance of Shiva with software engineering, and I learn a 
little bit more about myself in the process.', 'publish', 'open', 'open', '', 
'putting-pieces-together', '', '', '2010-07-12 13:39:48', '2010-07-12 
21:39:48', '', 0, 'http://nichecards.com/?p=405', 0, 'post', '', 1);
