INSERT INTO `nc_posts` VALUES (308, 2, '2010-03-15 10:11:00', '2010-03-15 
18:11:00', 'There are a couple of things that make the numbers that correspond 
to the motions in <a href="/dance-of-shiva/" title="What is Dance of 
Shiva?">Dance of Shiva</a> tricky to learn. One, they''re modulo four, so the 
horizontal count goes 1, 2, 3, 4 and then loops back around to 1, and the 
vertical count goes 5, 6, 7, 8 and then loops back to 5. Two, the left hand 
moves first when changing starting positions, so the positions go 11, 21, 31, 
41, instead of 11, 12, 13, 14 like you''d expect.\r\n\r\nFortunately, there''s 
a card game that makes learning these nuances fun, and it trains your brain to 
think about numbers in all sorts of directions. It''s called Spirals Solitaire, 
and it''s a variation of the solitaire game <a 
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yukon_%28solitaire%29" title="Read 
Wikipedia&#8217;s entry for Yukon 
solitaire.">Yukon</a>.\r\n\r\n<h3>Setup</h3>\r\n\r\nSpirals Solitaire is a 
single player game. (If you come up with a way to play with more than one 
person, please <a href="/contact/" tilte="Get in touch with me.">let me 
know</a>.) You''ll need either a deck of <a href="/buy-dance-of-shiva-cards/" 
title="Get a deck of Dance of Shiva cards.">Dance of Shiva cards</a>, or 
sixty-four index cards numbered with all the arm positions for Dance of 
Shiva.\r\n\r\nShuffle the cards. You''re going to make eight piles of cards, 
with 1 card in the left most pile and 8 cards in the right most pile. The other 
cards will have 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 cards if you''re looking at them left to 
right. When you''re done, flip over the top card of each pile.\r\n\r\nNow deal 
the remaining 28 cards face up onto the seven piles on the right. Don''t put 
any cards on the pile that has a single card in it. You want to overlap the 
cards a bit so you can see each card below the one you just put down. If 
you''ve done it right, you should end up with a single pile on the left with 1 
card in it, and seven piles with varying numbers of cards in them, each with 5 
face up cards on top. We''ll call these layout 
piles.\r\n\r\n<h3>Playing</h3>\r\n\r\nThe object of Spirals Solitaire is to 
reassemble the cards into eight piles of eight cards each. These new piles 
(we''ll call them foundation piles) go above the cards you''ve already laid 
out. They''ll start with the cards 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, and 18 
respectively. They''ll end with the cards 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, and 88. 
This is because in Dance of Shiva the left hand moves first to change starting 
positions, so we''re building piles of cards where the left hand is moving 
through a horizontal spiral (1-4) and then through a vertical spiral 
(5-8).\r\n\r\nIn order to move a card into a foundation pile, it must be at the 
top of a layout pile. In this case, "top" means that there aren''t any cards 
laying on top of it. To do that, you''re going to have to move cards around, 
building downward spirals (8 to 1) on your layout piles. Downward spirals can 
be built in one of three ways:\r\n\r\n<ol>\r\n<li>You can decrease the left 
hand number e.g. 76 can play on top of 86.</li>\r\n<li>You can decrease the 
right hand number e.g. 85 can play on top of 86.</li>\r\n<li>You can decrease 
both numbers e.g. 75 can play on top of 86.</li>\r\n</ol>\r\n\r\nWhen you''ve 
moved all the face up cards off a layout pile, you turn the top card of that 
pile face up. When a layout pile becomes empty, you can move any card you want 
into it''s place. When you''re moving a card, you have to move all the cards 
that are on top of it with it.\r\n\r\nAs you''re building downward spirals, 
there are three things to keep in mind:\r\n\r\n<ol>\r\n<li>Working towards 
freeing up face down cards is a good idea.</li>\r\n<li>Spirals don''t have to 
be continuous. So 86, 76, 75, 64 is a valid downward spiral since each 
transition from one card to the next follows one of the three rules 
above.</li>\r\n<li>Spirals wrap from 1 back to 8. So 26, 16, 86 is a valid 
downward spiral.</li>\r\n</ol>\r\n\r\n<h3>Variations</h3>\r\n\r\nYou can play 
other solitaire games, like <a 
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Klondike_%28solitaire%29" title="Read 
Wikipedia&#8217;s entry for Klondike solitaire.">Klondike</a>, in a similar 
fashion. I''m particularly fond of <a 
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bristol_%28solitaire%29" title="Read 
Wikipedia&#8217;s entry for Bristol solitaire.">Bristol Fans</a> myself.', 
'Spirals Solitaire', '', 'publish', 'open', 'open', '', 
'spirals-solitaire-game', '', '', '2010-03-15 16:09:29', '2010-03-16 00:09:29', 
'', 0, 'http://nichecards.com/?page_id=308', 0, 'page', '', 0);
