INSERT INTO `nc_posts` VALUES (102, 2, '2010-02-19 16:52:46', '2010-02-20 
00:52:46', 'Tacos are friend friendly food, since they''re easy to make lots 
of, and everyone gets to doctor theirs up however they want. So if your best 
friend hates onions and tomatoes, he can skip those and just go for the meat 
and cheese variety. I like to do the tortillas and seasoning from scratch since 
those are the fun parts.\r\n\r\n<h3>Tortillas</h3>\r\n\r\nThis tortilla recipe 
comes from Robert Rodriguez. It''s the one you can find on the <a 
href="http://amazon.com/Sin-City-Unrated-Two-Disc-Collectors/dp/B000BCKFWK" 
title="Buy &#8220;Sin City&#8221; from Amazon.">Sin City <abbr title="Digital 
Video Disk">DVD</abbr></a>.\r\n\r\n<h4>Ingredients</h4>\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>2 
cups flour</li>\r\n<li>0.5 teaspoons salt</li>\r\n<li>0.5 teaspoons baking 
powder</li>\r\n<li>0.25 cups butter</li>\r\n<li>0.75 cups hot 
water</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\n<h4>Directions</h4>\r\n\r\nMix the flour, salt, and 
baking powder. Cut in the butter. It should feel course when your done. You 
should be able to squeeze it together, have it hold its form briefly, and then 
fall apart. Mix in the water with your hands. You want an slightly sticky 
dough. Add more flour if it''s too wet. Add more water if it''s too 
dry.\r\n\r\nKneed the dough for a few minutes until the stickiness goes away. 
It should feel smooth and elastic. Divide it up into eight balls, arrange them 
on a backing sheet, and cover them with a damp towel. Ignore the dough for 
twenty minutes and go do something else, like making the taco meat.\r\n\r\nHeat 
a cast iron skillet on medium heat. You want it just to the point you can smell 
it but not before it starts smoking. Roll out the balls of dough into thin 
circles. I usually make mine the same size as the bottom of my skillet. Toss a 
tortilla in the skillet. Wait a minute, let it bubble, then flip it over. It 
should have some brown spots on the bottom. If it doesn''t, your skillet''s not 
hot enough. Cook each tortilla for about a minute on each side. Stack them all 
on a plate and cover them with a damp towel so they don''t dry 
out.\r\n\r\n<h4>Notes</h4>\r\n\r\nDon''t substitute baking soda for the baking 
powder. If you do, your tortillas will come out all 
gritty.\r\n\r\n<h3>Meat</h3>\r\n\r\nThis taco seasoning recipe is one I made up 
when evening when I couldn''t find any store bought seasoning in the cupboard. 
I ended up liking it more, possibly because it doesn''t have any 
salt.\r\n\r\n<h4>Ingredients</h4>\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>1 pound extra lean ground 
beef</li>\r\n<li>2 teaspoons cumin</li>\r\n<li>0.5 teaspoons garlic 
powder</li>\r\n<li>0.5 teaspoons onion powder</li>\r\n<li>0.125 teaspoons red 
pepper</li>\r\n<li>0.25 cups of 
water</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\n<h4>Directions</h4>\r\n\r\nBrown the ground beef in 
a cast iron skillet. Mix the cumin, garlic powder, onion powder, and red pepper 
in a small bowl. Dump it over the meat. Add the water, stir it all together, 
and let it simmer until most of the water''s cooked off.\r\n\r\n<h4 
id="notes">Notes</h4>\r\n\r\nCumin is what gives taco seasoning its taco taste. 
Red pepper is what gives it color.\r\n\r\nWhen it comes to cooking with cast 
iron there are two things to remember:\r\n\r\n<ol>\r\n<li>Let your skillet get 
hot before you put anything any it. I leave mine on medium-low for ten minutes. 
It''ll make it so nothing sticks, not even eggs.</li>\r\n<li>Wash your skillet 
out with hot soapy water when you''re done. Then rub a little vegetable oil on 
the inside with a paper towel.</li>\r\n</ol>', 'Making tacos from scratch', 'In 
which a recipe for home made tortillas and taco seasoning is provided, and the 
secrets of cast iron cooking masters are revealed.', 'publish', 'open', 'open', 
'', 'tacos-recipe', '', '', '2010-03-07 08:21:31', '2010-03-07 16:21:31', '', 
0, 'http://nichecards.com/?p=102', 0, 'post', '', 0);
