<!--
title:
created:
updated:
slug:
tags:
-->
INSERT INTO `nc_posts` VALUES (391, 2, '2010-06-28 13:55:55', '2010-06-28 
21:55:55', 'I tend to practice <a href="/dance-of-shiva/" title="My attempt to 
define Shiva Nata yoga.">Shiva Nata</a> fast and to music, often accompanied by 
other distractions, like the cat wanting to rub against my feet. Inevitably, 
this leads to things breaking down. I''ll be going along, one position to the 
next, and suddenly I''ll stop. My mind knows what the next part of the sequence 
is, but my body doesn''t know how to get there.  \r\n\r\nThe silence that 
ensues is awkward, a horrible pause in a flowing dance. I feel to need to start 
over, to try again. But if I wait long enough, becoming comfortable with this 
extended gap between motions, the dance will resume itself. \r\n\r\nStillness 
is the genesis of motion.\r\n\r\nI''ve had the delightful experience over the 
past few weeks of having lengthy conversations shortly after practicing Shiva 
Nata. The difference in the quality of these conversations is amazing. Before, 
I would find gaps in conversation uncomfortable. "What are they thinking? Why 
don''t they answer?" my mind would scream. Now, when I have to wait while 
someone <a 
href="http://www.renegadeyogi.com/better-living/language-learning/language-learn
ing-hack-to-multiply-your-vocab-and-deepen-your-conversations/" title="Eric 
Normand&#8217;s trick for eliminating the pause in language recall.">searches 
for an answer</a>, I stay engaged instead of day dreaming. When I pause before 
speaking, I no longer find the halt in discourse awkward. Instead, I see the 
silence as a necessary prelude to the spoken sound.\r\n\r\nAs time passes, this 
awareness fades. The longer I go between Shiva Nata and a conversation, the 
more likely I am to fall back into familiar patterns. But as I practice more, I 
find myself pausing more, purposefully creating spaces for words to fill. ', 
'Towards quieter conversations', 'Wherein I learn to be comfortable with pauses 
in conversation, and eventually finding myself purposefully inserting them as a 
means of making space for more words.', 'publish', 'open', 'open', '', 
'towards-quieter-conversations', '', '', '2010-06-29 14:00:49', '2010-06-29 
22:00:49', '', 0, 'http://nichecards.com/?p=391', 0, 'post', '', 2);
