<!--
title:
created:
updated:
slug:
tags:
-->
INSERT INTO `nc_posts` VALUES (299, 2, '2010-03-15 09:57:45', '2010-03-15 
17:57:45', 'When you''re learning <a href="/dance-of-shiva/" title="What is 
Dance of Shiva?">Dance of Shiva</a>, transquarters are one of the hardest 
things to master. They''re the motions that go against the usual spiral pattern 
and cross the plane of the square: 1 goes to 3, 2 goes to 4, 5 goes to 7, and 6 
goes to 8. When you get to Level 5 where your arms change planes with every 
motion, it gets even harder: 1 goes to 7, 2 goes to 8, 5 goes to 3, and 6 goes 
to 4. It''s tricky just to write it out, and that''s without all the tired that 
comes with waving your arms around.\r\n\r\nFortunately, there''s a game that 
helps your brain memorize transquarters without your arms getting tired. It''s 
called Transquarters Memory, and it''s a variation on the card game <a 
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Concentration_%28game%29" title="Read 
Wikipedia&#8217;s entry about the game 
Concentration.">Concentration</a>.\r\n\r\n<h3>Setup</h3>\r\n\r\nTransquarters 
Memory is a game for two or more people. (Okay, you can play it by yourself if 
you want, but it''s more fun with more people.) You''ll need either a deck of 
<a href="/buy-dance-of-shiva-cards/" title="Get a deck of Dance of Shiva 
cards.">Dance of Shiva cards</a>, or sixty-four index cards numbered with all 
the arm positions for Dance of Shiva. Shuffle the cards, then spread them out 
face down in eight rows of eight cards each.\r\n\r\n<h3>Playing</h3>\r\n\r\nThe 
goal of the game is to flip over cards that form transquarter pairs. So if you 
turn over the 37 card first, then you''ll want to flip over the 15 card 
second.\r\n\r\nCards are turned over two at a time. If you succeed in flipping 
over a transquarter pair, you remove that pair, and you get to take another 
turn. If the two cards you pick don''t make a transquarter pair, then you flip 
the cards face down, and it''s the next player''s turn.\r\n\r\nThe game ends 
when there are no more face down cards. The winner is the person who''s 
collected the most transquarter pairs.\r\n\r\n<h3>Variations</h3>\r\n\r\nYou 
can also play with mirror images instead of transquarters, where 13 would pair 
up with 31. In that case, the cards that are mirror images of themselves 11, 
22, 33, etc. pair up with their transquarter matches.', 'Transquarters Memory', 
'', 'publish', 'closed', 'closed', '', 'transquarters-memory-game', '', '', 
'2010-03-15 16:08:26', '2010-03-16 00:08:26', '', 0, 
'http://nichecards.com/?page_id=299', 0, 'page', '', 0);
