<!--
title:
created:
updated:
slug:
tags:
-->
INSERT INTO `nc_posts` VALUES (364, 2, '2010-04-05 18:07:55', '2010-04-06 
02:07:55', 'I''ve been doing self help stuff for 15 years, ever since my 
parents divorced and I figured it was all my fault. I spent that time feeling 
guilty, wishing that I could change, that I could be a better son, a different 
kid. I passed the time with books, either escaping into science fiction where 
feelings disolved with pills, or sucking down the teachings of <a 
href="http://chopra.com/" title="The Chopra Center">Deepak Chopra</a>, <a 
href="http://ogmandino.com/" title="The official site for all things Og 
Mandino.">Og Mandino</a>, Dale Carnegie, and anyone else who promised 
change.\r\n\r\nIt didn''t happen. My parents did not get back together. My life 
did not get magically better. Still I kept looking, searching, seeking. So much 
time passed, that my pain became a memory, and I forgot what I was looking for 
in the first place. But the need for change never left.\r\n\r\nThen I <a 
href="http://fluentself.com/destuckification-retreat/" title="Havi''s fantastic 
Destuckification Retreat.">danced Shiva Nata</a>, bawled my eyes out, and felt 
something shift.\r\n\r\nI asked <a href="http://fluentself.com/" title="The 
Fluent Self. For when you need some destuckification.">Havi</a> why this time 
was different. Her words were the same ones I''d heard from other people, her 
techniques the same kinds of things I''d done a thousand times before. Yet when 
I looked in the mirror I saw a person I liked, someone whom I didn''t feel 
needed to be different. What made her stuff special? What made it 
work?\r\n\r\nIt was the dancing.\r\n\r\nAll universal truths sound stupid 
because they''re not supposed to be heard with your ears. Dancing <a 
href="/dance-of-shiva/" title="My attempt to answer the question, &#8220;What 
is Dance of Shiva?&#8221;">Shiva Nata</a> exhausts the brain, so you bypass it, 
and connect directly to the only truth that matters, felt experience. Then 
things can shift and change because you''re dealing with what''s real for you, 
instead of trying to filter your reality through someone else''s words.', 'All 
universal truths sound stupid', 'Wherein connections between my search for 
change and traumatic childhood experiences are drawn, and our inability to 
understand universal truths is explored.', 'publish', 'open', 'open', '', 
'universal-truths-sound-stupid', '', '', '2010-06-25 18:03:32', '2010-06-26 
02:03:32', '', 0, 'http://nichecards.com/?p=364', 0, 'post', '', 2);
