<!--
title:
created:
updated:
slug:
tags:
-->
INSERT INTO `nc_posts` VALUES (1, 2, '2010-02-15 20:22:10', '2010-02-16 
04:22:10', 'When I started doing Dance of Shiva, I was okay with the <a 
href="http://shivanata.com/blog/ask/whats-with-the-epiphanies/" title="Havi''s 
explanation for why waving your arms gets you epiphanies.">"wave your arms, get 
epiphanies"</a> thing. I''d had enough experience with physical therapy to know 
that changes in the body could cause changes in the brain. That satisfaction 
lasted about 16 minutes, and then the engineer in me demanded to know where the 
epiphanies where coming from.\r\n\r\n<blockquote><p>But in the Dance of Shiva, 
the main accent is made on the development of the multi-sector control of the 
bodyâ€™s controlling structures, the increases of the speed of the controlling 
processes, and the forms of the new algorithms of transcendental links in the 
consciousness. These new links increase the power and generation of the 
bio-processor.</p></blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhile I love the modern day alchemist 
tone of <a href="http://universal-yoga.com/?id=64707" title="Andrey Lappa''s 
explanation of Dance of Shiva.">Andrey''s writing</a>, it wasn''t the lucid 
explanation I wanted. So I started reading about neuroscience.\r\n\r\n<h3>It''s 
a whole brain thing.</h3>\r\n\r\nIn his book <a 
href="http://amazon.com/Whole-New-Mind-Right-Brainers-Future/dp/1594481717/" 
title="Buy &#8220;A Whole New Mind&#8221; on Amazon.">A Whole New Mind</a>, 
Daniel Pink points out that because we in the  Western part of the world read 
left to right and are predominately right handed, we suffer from what is called 
"an alphabetic mind". The left hemisphere of our brain controls the right side 
of our body, thinks sequentially, understands text, and knows how to analyze 
details. People who are L-Directed Thinkers, statisticians, engineers, 
accountants, love it over there.\r\n\r\nOn the other side, the right hemisphere 
controls the left side of the body, thinks simultaneously, specializes in 
context, and knows how to synthesize the big picture. People who are R-Directed 
Thinkers, actors, musicians, poets, like the right side more. And as Seth Godin 
points out in <a 
href="http://amazon.com/Linchpin-Are-Indispensable-Seth-Godin/dp/1591843162/" 
title="Buy &#8220;Linchpin&#8221; from Amazon.">Linchpin</a>, we need more and 
more creative thinkers since we''re giving the non-creative jobs away to 
robots.\r\n\r\nThe lovely thing about Dance of Shiva is that it works on both 
sides of the brain. The simultaneous movement of both arms means the left and 
right hemispheres are working together to coordinate the spiral motions. The 
left hemisphere will interpret the number of a particular position while the 
right hemisphere puts it into the context of the level being worked on. 
L-Directed Thinkers will be exercising the right hemispheres of their brains 
more than they''re used to, and visa versa for R-Directed Thinkers. That''s 
where the epiphanies come from.\r\n\r\n<h3>Eventually, the monkey mind gets 
exhausted.</h3>\r\n\r\nBecause Dance of Shiva challenges the whole brain, it''s 
an extremely mental workout. If you''re making it challenging, you eventually 
reach the point where you''re saying the numbers wrong, your failing 
spastically, and your conscious mind is totally exhausted. In the gap of 
silence that happens when you lay down for <em>shavasana</em> afterwards, your 
subconscious has a chance to talk.\r\n\r\nThe creative sparkles and new 
insights that come after practicing Dance of Shiva happen because your brain 
has made new neurological connections. In her research, Elizabeth Gould showed 
that <a 
href="http://headrush.typepad.com/creating_passionate_users/2006/02/brain_death_
by_.html" title="Kathy Sierra''s article about how cubicles kill brain 
cells.">rich, stimulating environments cause neurogenesis and increased 
dendrite density</a>. Because Dance of Shiva actively fires neurons on both 
sides of your brain, it causes new connections to form between your brain 
cells.\r\n\r\nThose new synaptic patterns and connections mean you think about 
things in new ways, drawing connections and making conclusions you haven''t 
seen before.', 'Why does Dance of Shiva make you more creative?', 'Wherein an 
explanation for the bursts of creativity and the fuzzy golden brain feeling one 
gets after doing Dance of Shiva is provided. Pop neuroscience references are 
used as supporting material.', 'publish', 'open', 'open', '', 
'why-does-dance-of-shiva-work', '', 
'\nhttp://shivanata.com/blog/ask/whats-with-the-epiphanies/', '2010-02-26 
09:18:57', '2010-02-26 17:18:57', '', 0, 'http://nichecards.com/cms/?p=1', 0, 
'post', '', 0);
